# Story

Generally I am pretty open as to what the story should be, I do think that a linear story is very much necessary though. Have levels and then you just play through them until you reach the end. Our target audience isn't really that niche or specific, so a simple linear story line should be better suited for a broader audience.

Now regarding the actualy story, I was thinking something pretty similar to Redeemer, some Monk (with maybe some connections of his past to gang or something like that) then an event happens and he is out for blood to kill gang members. Generally that would probably work, could also go with a more philosophically interesting story but I don't really mind too much.

Some gameplay ideas that could influence:
    - If we end up including policeman and civilians then at the very end with the final dude let him incoorporate the stats of the player, something like `Final Badguy: "I have read the reports you know... 276. Fucking 276 civilians! You are not any better than us. No, no you are even worse! You are a monster!`, or something along those lines. I think that could be a pretty cool reflection on the players choices throughout the game and maybe also hit them with a curve ball because they probably didn't think much of killing civilians in a game like this.
    - If there is something like a _Game+_ then perhaps have slightly different dialogue in some cases? Maybe even have a different ending (like a "true ending" or something?). Something like that could easily double the playtime while only requiring a fraction of the time to create, although certianly not all players would play this mode, but it would be nice to give that to people who really enjoyed the game and want to play some more

If you end up implementing multiple gangs then you could do something like some gang wanting to team up with our protagonist, they meet up, they give the proposition, they shake hands, though after a few seconds the hand of the gang member explodes (chad crushed his hand with a hand shake), then says something like "I would never ally with scum like you.", further solidifying his disgust and hatred for gangs.

## How to Implement Story

- It should never **EVER** interrupt gameplay, preferably put them at the end of chapters, don't know if they should always have one, maybe cutscenes? Maybe just simple dialogue? Maybe not all need them, depends on the pacing of the game I guess
- Less is more, this game is about gameplay/mechanics first, everything else is second, story is just a little driving force, if the mechanics are ass than the story is not supposed to save it, the story must not overshadow gameplay
- Keep story segments short, probably less than one minute, towards the end longer segments are toleratable
- Do not, **EVER** start the game with a cutscene or stupid story shit, **EVER**, let the player _want_ to know more about the world, open with gameplay instantly, explain what stuff is about as you go
    - Oh, I just realized this is **exactly** what Breath of the Wild does (to be fair, the story of the game is basically already known, it's obvious that Ganon pulled some shinanigans etc etc, so it's not a fair comparision, Katana Zero is much closer to what we have here), and it's great (also Katana Zero does this a _tiny_ bit, like the first 2 minutes or so are tutorial and then story starts, use that as a reference, works much better)
    - `https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4k4-CP3q2xw` take a look at this, an old build of the game katana zero, story starts right away, not good I think
    - `https://youtu.be/bups0ZUQdvc?t=308`, this is kinda talking about something similar
- No story before 15min, I feel like that is a decent mark, mabye even 30min (though the game will not be that long in the first place, so yeah something in that ballpark)
    - Okay so future me here, maybe that is a little much, I wouldn't put a hard limit on it, just playtest and see how it feels, also every player takes different time for each segment, keep that in mind
- Possible fix for the issue with no story in the first 15min: Have some kind of radio or TV or something that explains what is going on, like "oh there were gang fights all over tokyo last night with 71 casulties and bla bla bla", but that thing is completely optional, maybe even make it destructable, I am imagining some little ass speaker that just has a dialogue box and it gets destroyed one hit if the player attacks it, signaling to the player that it's not important to listen, but they do have the option to if they are very into lore and story and shit.
    - This could also solve the issue of having the player ask "why? what's the point?" without being so _in your face_ with it

## Possible stories

As I said, I am pretty open to anything, though for the case that I need to write the story myself, here are some potential ideas. Also note that in any story, it will only start **after** the gameplay, regardless of what you actually choose, the player will be left to wonder why he is killing these guys, only then can you start the story (again, it's not like the player is gonna play hours without any kind of story, just let him play the game for a few solid minutes).

- Protagonist is a former elitst fighter (monk/martial artist? something), but now lives a life secluded from any kind of civilization, only with his wife and daughter (or son? his family.). However, one day some kind of messenger arrives, to tell him that the world is in danger (or maybe not the world, maybe just his temple or something of his past, I really, *really* don't like these grandious stories where the hero has to save the entire world, keep it grounded man), so he has to set out to erradicate this danger for the sake of his families protection. You would leave your family in the protection of some old friend you trust, or something like that. What exactly happens here is kinda open, a betrayal? Probably too obvious, but some kind of interesting twist would be good.
- Protagonist is a former elitst fighter (monk/martial artist? something), but now lives a life secluded from any kind of civilization with his family, or well, used to live, they got all killed (or perhaps some got kidnapped?) so you set out to kill them all in act of vengance (or rescue the ones that were kidnappes?). I am not a huge fan of this, super flat story, also the villains are just super boring, story very similar to that of Redeemer.
- Protagonist is just some random guy that works out like crazy as an outlet for his anger (he is working some random shit job, like 9 to 5 office job with some stupid as boss), absolutely hating society and parts of his life but he is holding out somewhat due to workout out everyday, but he hates the weak man around him, the fact that his boss is such a mentally weak man with no integrity or pride or discipline. Then some event happens that make him snap, the whole idea of this plotline is based on epsiode 7 of DanDaDan, if you watch it you will pretty much know exactly what I am talking about. So anyways, this event makes him realize all the problems with society are due to weak man (or at least that his the conclusion our protagonist arrives at). And so begins his journey to eradicate all the weak man (essentially anybody that harms others for their own good). Maybe it could be even more twisted that the protagonist starts to also kill innocent people that just seem weak, like normal office workers that didn't do anything wrong, but from his perspective they also didn't do anything _right_, so perhaps at the start he is rescuing and helping those, but at the end he is just mercilessly killing everybody.
- Some kind of brotherhood-like friendship theme. Maybe the best friend of the protagonist gets into trouble with the gangs or something? Or some premise like that, so now our protagonist has to help him out? Yeah not sure, don't have anything concrete but I really like that kind of brotherhood/bromance vibe.

## Ideas for smaller Story Elements

- Player is walking into a new area, triggers a semi cutscene, boy is crying and player (in cutscene mode) approaches boy, asks what's wrong. Boy sees player and asks for help because the player looks very strong, boy asks player to follow him. They backtrack, seeing all the blood and dead bodies etc. that the player caused, the boy continues to cry, his pace is getting slower? (Not sure about this, should his pace get faster? I mean he sees all the dead bodies and what not..), anyways, music is very slow and somewhat sad, as they get closer to the goal, the boy start screaming for his brother, and we see it's one of the many corpses that the player has just created... how to wrap this up? dunno, maybe just fade out to black, in that case you need to put it this whole thing at the end of a level (which I think is a good move anyways).
- The thing with the exposition speaker at the start of the game
